docs/PRD.md, before:

# Product Requirements Document (PRD) - Document Processing and Q&A System with Tree of Graphs (ToG) and LangGraph Agent

## 1. Project Overview

### 1.1 Product Name
Knowledge Graph-based Document Processing and Q&A System with Tree of Graphs, LangGraph Agent and LangSmith Tracing

### 1.2 Executive Summary
This product is a web-based application that allows users to upload documents, process them through Microsoft's GraphRAG methodology enhanced with Tree of Graphs (ToG) reasoning from the outset, and generate intelligent answers to user queries. The system will utilize a knowledge graph (Neo4j) to store relationships between entities extracted from documents and a PostgreSQL database to store user data. The integration of ToG methodology will enhance reasoning capabilities by structuring the problem-solving process as a tree of interconnected graph-based reasoning steps. The system will be built using a LangGraph agent that intelligently selects the optimal retrieval strategy (GraphRAG, ToG, or Hybrid) based on the query type and provides transparent reasoning chains with LangSmith tracing for enhanced debugging and monitoring.

### 1.3 Vision
To create an intuitive document processing platform that enables users to extract valuable insights from their documents through advanced AI-powered question and answer capabilities, leveraging knowledge graph technology, Tree of Graphs reasoning, and a flexible agent-based approach for enhanced understanding and context.

## 2. Goals and Objectives

### 2.1 Primary Goals
- Enable users to upload various document types and extract meaningful information
- Implement Microsoft's GraphRAG approach enhanced with Tree of Graphs (ToG) reasoning methodology from the start
- Provide intelligent Q&A capabilities based on uploaded documents with enhanced reasoning
- Create an intuitive and responsive user interface
- Ensure scalability and data security
- Implement a LangGraph agent for intelligent query routing and processing
- Integrate LangSmith for comprehensive agent tracing and debugging
- Provide transparent reasoning chains with query responses

### 2.2 Success Metrics
- Average response time for Q&A queries under 5 seconds (with ToG processing)
- Support for document types: PDF, DOCX, TXT, PPTX, XLSX
- 95% uptime for the application
- Support for up to 1000 concurrent users
- User satisfaction rating of 4+ stars
- Improved answer accuracy and reasoning depth with integrated GraphRAG and ToG methodologies
- 90% accuracy in query mode selection by the LangGraph agent
- Comprehensive tracing coverage of all reasoning steps with LangSmith

## 3. Target Users

### 3.1 Primary Users
- Knowledge workers in enterprises
- Researchers and analysts
- Students and educators
- Legal professionals
- Consultants and business analysts

## 4. Feature Requirements

### 4.1 User Management
- User registration and authentication
- Profile management
- Document upload history
- Subscription/plan management

### 4.2 Document Processing
- File upload functionality (drag and drop, multiple files)
- Document parsing and validation
- Progress tracking during processing
- Support for multiple file formats
- File size limits and validation

### 4.3 Knowledge Graph Integration with ToG
- Implementation of Microsoft's GraphRAG methodology
- Tree of Graphs (ToG) reasoning enhancement
- Entity extraction and relationship mapping
- Hierarchical graph structure creation for document content
- Storage and retrieval from Neo4j knowledge graph
- Multi-step reasoning through graph traversal

### 4.4 Question & Answer System with ToG and LangGraph Agent
- Natural language query interface
- LangGraph agent for intelligent query routing between GraphRAG, ToG, and Hybrid modes
- Flexible query modes (GraphRAG / ToG / Hybrid) based on automatic query classification
- Tree of Graphs-based multi-step reasoning
- Context-aware answer generation
- Source citation for answers
- Answer confidence scoring
- Support for complex, multi-part questions
- Reasoning path visualization
- Display of reasoning chains with answers
- LangSmith tracing for comprehensive agent monitoring

### 4.5 User Interface
- Modern, responsive UI using Next.js 15+
- Shadcn UI components for consistent design
- Tailwind CSS for styling
- Intuitive navigation and user experience
- Dark/light mode support
- Real-time chat interface for Q&A
- Reasoning visualization panel to show ToG steps

## 5. Technical Architecture

### 5.1 Frontend
- **Framework**: Next.js 15+ with App Router
- **UI Components**: shadcn/ui
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS
- **Deployment**: Vercel or Netlify
- **State Management**: Zustand or React Query
- **API Communication**: Axios or Fetch API

### 5.2 Backend
- **Framework**: FastAPI
- **Programming Language**: Python 3.10+
- **Database (User Data)**: PostgreSQL
- **Database (Knowledge Graph)**: Neo4j
- **Deployment**: Docker containers, deployed on AWS/GCP/Azure
- **API Documentation**: Swagger/OpenAPI
- **Caching**: Redis for frequently accessed graph nodes and reasoning paths

### 5.3 AI/LLM Integration
- **Model**: Google Gemini 2.5 Flash
- **Integration**: Through Google AI SDK
- **Prompt Engineering**: ToG-enhanced prompting for multi-step reasoning
- **Rate Limiting**: API call throttling to manage costs
- **Reasoning Engine**: Custom ToG implementation for structured problem solving
- **Agent Framework**: LangGraph for building and orchestrating the reasoning agent
- **Tracing and Monitoring**: LangSmith for comprehensive agent tracing, debugging, and performance analysis
- **Flexible Query Processing**: LangGraph agent that chooses optimal strategies (GraphRAG / ToG / Hybrid) based on query classification

### 5.4 Data Flow Architecture
```
[Document Upload] → [Parsing & Preprocessing] → [Entity Extraction] → [Knowledge Graph Creation] 
→ [Query Classification by LangGraph Agent] → [Mode Selection: GraphRAG | ToG | Hybrid] 
→ [Flexible Reasoning Process] → [Reasoning Chain Generation] → [Answer Generation with Source Citations] 
→ [Response with Reasoning Chain Display]
```

## 6. Microsoft GraphRAG with Tree of Graphs (ToG) Implementation

### 6.1 Overview
Microsoft's GraphRAG approach combines traditional retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) with knowledge graph technology to enhance the quality and relevance of generated answers. When enhanced with Tree of Graphs (ToG) reasoning, the system structures the problem-solving process as a tree of interconnected graph-based reasoning steps, allowing for more sophisticated and structured analysis of complex queries.

### 6.2 ToG Integration Details
The Tree of Graphs approach will enable the system to:
1. Break complex queries into smaller sub-problems (tree nodes)
2. Process each sub-problem using graph-based reasoning
3. Combine results from multiple reasoning paths
4. Explore multiple reasoning paths simultaneously with backtracking when needed
5. Provide explainable AI by showing the reasoning path

### 6.3 Implementation Steps
1. **Document Parsing**: Extract text, images, and structured data from uploaded documents
2. **Entity Recognition**: Identify and classify entities (people, places, organizations, concepts)
3. **Relationship Extraction**: Determine relationships between identified entities
4. **Graph Construction**: Create a knowledge graph representation of document content
5. **Indexing**: Index the knowledge graph for efficient querying
6. **Query Decomposition**: Break complex queries into sub-queries using ToG methodology
7. **Tree-based Reasoning**: Execute reasoning across multiple graph paths simultaneously
8. **Result Aggregation**: Combine insights from multiple reasoning paths
9. **Answer Generation**: Generate responses based on graph insights using Gemini 2.5 Flash

### 6.4 Knowledge Graph Schema with ToG Capabilities
The Neo4j knowledge graph will include nodes for:
- Documents
- Entities (People, Organizations, Places, Concepts)
- Sentences/Paragraphs
- Topics/Themes
- Reasoning Steps
- ToG Nodes (tree structure for reasoning paths)

Relationships will include:
- CONTAINS, REFERS_TO, MENTIONS, CONNECTS_TO
- HAS_TYPE, PART_OF, RELATED_TO
- REASONING_STEP_OF, PREVIOUS_STEP, NEXT_STEP
- SUB_PROBLEM_OF, DEPENDS_ON

### 6.5 ToG Reasoning Process
The ToG reasoning will follow these steps:
1. **Query Analysis**: Analyze the question to determine if ToG reasoning is needed
2. **Problem Decomposition**: Break the query into sub-problems if complexity threshold is exceeded
3. **Tree Construction**: Create reasoning tree with multiple paths
4. **Parallel Exploration**: Traverse multiple graph paths simultaneously
5. **Result Synthesis**: Combine results from all exploration paths
6. **Validation**: Verify consistency and accuracy of final answer
7. **Explanation**: Generate reasoning path documentation

### 6.6 Flexible Query Modes with LangGraph Agent
The system will feature a LangGraph-based agent that automatically classifies question types and selects the most appropriate processing strategy:

#### 6.6.1 Query Mode Classification
- **Chế độ truy vấn linh hoạt (GraphRAG / ToG / Hybrid)**: The system will automatically classify question types and select the appropriate response strategy:
  - **GraphRAG Mode**: Applied when questions require a comprehensive, holistic view. The system will use the GraphRAG approach to search for answers based on the overall knowledge graph and community summaries.
  - **ToG Mode**: Applied when questions involve deep sequential queries or require step-by-step reasoning. The system will use the ToG method, starting from key entities and sequentially expanding through relationships, with pruning of irrelevant branches, to find detailed answers.
  - **Hybrid Mode**: Applied for complex multi-tiered questions that require both broad context and deep reasoning. The system combines both approaches: starting with GraphRAG to identify relevant knowledge areas, then switching to ToG to explore details within those areas.

#### 6.6.2 LangGraph Agent Workflow
- **Query Classification**: The agent analyzes incoming queries to determine the optimal processing strategy
- **Mode Selection**: Automatically selects between GraphRAG, ToG, or Hybrid based on query characteristics
- **Execution Orchestration**: Coordinates the execution of the chosen reasoning approach
- **Result Aggregation**: Combines results from various reasoning processes
- **Response Generation**: Creates final responses with appropriate citations and explanations

### 6.7 Reasoning Chain and Transparency Features
The system will provide enhanced transparency through detailed reasoning chains:

#### 6.7.1 Reasoning Chain Display
- **Each response will include**: The main answer (generated in natural Vietnamese by the LLM) and a reasoning chain explaining the logical steps or information links used to reach the answer.
- **Chain Visualization**: The reasoning chain can be displayed as a list of logical steps, with citations or annotations showing the source (e.g., from which document section or graph node).
- **Traceability**: Users will be able to understand the basis of the answer, increasing transparency and trust in the system.

#### 6.7.2 LangSmith Integration
- **Comprehensive Tracing**: All agent operations and reasoning steps will be traced using LangSmith
- **Debugging Capabilities**: Enhanced debugging and monitoring of the agent's decision-making process
- **Performance Analysis**: Detailed analysis of agent performance and response quality
- **Audit Trail**: Complete audit trail of all processing steps for compliance and optimization

## 7. Database Design

### 7.1 PostgreSQL Schema
```
Tables:
- users (id, email, password_hash, created_at, updated_at)
- documents (id, user_id, filename, file_path, status, created_at, updated_at)
- queries (id, user_id, query_text, response, created_at)
- reasoning_paths (id, query_id, path_data, confidence_score, created_at)
```

### 7.2 Neo4j Graph Schema with ToG Support
```
Nodes:
- Document: {doc_id, title, source, content_hash}
- Entity: {entity_id, name, type, description}
- Sentence: {sentence_id, text, position}
- ToGNode: {node_id, reasoning_type, confidence, state}
- ReasoningStep: {step_id, description, result}

Relationships:
- Document-[CONTAINS]->Entity
- Document-[CONTAINS]->Sentence
- Entity-[RELATED_TO]->Entity
- Sentence-[MENTIONS]->Entity
- ToGNode-[HAS_CHILD]->ToGNode
- ToGNode-[CONNECTS_TO]->Entity
- ReasoningStep-[FOLLOWS]->ReasoningStep
- Query-[USES_PATH]->ReasoningStep
```

## 8. User Journey

### 8.1 Registration/Onboarding
1. User signs up and creates account
2. Introduction to the platform capabilities including ToG reasoning

### 8.2 Document Upload and Processing
1. User selects documents for upload
2. File validation and progress tracking
3. Background processing with status updates
4. Knowledge graph construction with ToG compatibility
5. Confirmation of successful processing

### 8.3 Query and Q&A with LangGraph Agent and Flexible Reasoning
1. User enters a question about processed documents
2. LangGraph agent automatically classifies the question type and selects appropriate mode (GraphRAG / ToG / Hybrid)
3. System applies the selected reasoning approach:
   - For comprehensive questions: GraphRAG mode with holistic graph analysis
   - For sequential/step-by-step questions: ToG mode with tree-based reasoning
   - For complex multi-tiered questions: Hybrid mode combining both approaches
4. Multiple reasoning paths are explored as appropriate for the selected mode
5. AI generates answer with source citations and detailed reasoning chain
6. User receives both the natural language answer and a visual reasoning chain showing the logical steps and data sources
7. User can review the reasoning process, validate sources, or ask follow-up questions

## 9. Security and Privacy

### 9.1 Data Security
- End-to-end encryption for document uploads
- Secure storage of user credentials and data
- Role-based access control
- Regular security audits
- Encryption of reasoning paths and ToG data

### 9.2 Privacy
- GDPR compliance
- Data retention policies
- Right to deletion of personal data
- Transparent privacy policy
- Anonymization of reasoning patterns

## 10. Performance Requirements

### 10.1 Scalability
- Horizontal scaling capabilities
- Load balancing for API requests
- Database optimization and indexing
- Caching mechanisms for frequently accessed data
- Distributed ToG reasoning across multiple nodes

### 10.2 Performance
- Page load times under 2 seconds
- Simple query API response times under 1 second
- Complex ToG-based queries response times under 5 seconds
- Document processing time proportional to document size
- Concurrency handling for multiple users
- Efficient ToG tree pruning to optimize reasoning time

## 11. Development Phases

### Phase 1: MVP Development with GraphRAG Foundation
- Basic user authentication
- Document upload functionality
- GraphRAG implementation with Neo4j knowledge graph
- Entity and relationship extraction
- Basic knowledge graph construction and indexing
- Simple UI for testing

### Phase 2: Advanced GraphRAG Features
- Enhance knowledge graph with community detection
- Implement graph-based Q&A with community summaries
- Advanced entity and relationship extraction
- Implement graph traversal algorithms for retrieval
- Add graph visualization for debugging

### Phase 3: ToG Reasoning Implementation
- Develop Tree of Graphs reasoning engine
- Implement query decomposition logic
- Create ToG tree structure and traversal
- Integrate ToG with GraphRAG methodology for enhanced reasoning
- Add reasoning path visualization to UI

### Phase 4: LangGraph Agent Implementation
- Implement LangGraph agent for intelligent query routing
- Develop query classification system for mode selection (GraphRAG / ToG / Hybrid)
- Integrate LangSmith for comprehensive agent tracing
- Implement flexible reasoning mode switching
- Add reasoning chain generation and display

### Phase 5: Advanced UI and Optimization
- Improved UI/UX with shadcn components and ToG visualization
- Performance optimization for ToG processing
- Advanced querying capabilities
- Enhanced answer explanation features
- Reasoning chain visualization improvements

### Phase 6: LangSmith Integration and Tracing
- Complete LangSmith tracing implementation for all processes
- Reasoning chain visualization and transparency features
- Agent performance optimization and testing
- Comprehensive debugging and monitoring tools

### Phase 7: Production Readiness
- Security hardening
- Performance monitoring
- Analytics implementation
- Documentation and user guides
- Load testing with ToG and LangGraph features
- Production deployment preparation

## 12. Risks and Mitigation

### 12.1 Technical Risks
- **Risk**: High computational complexity of ToG reasoning affecting response time
  - **Mitigation**: Implement efficient tree pruning and caching mechanisms
- **Risk**: Large memory consumption during ToG processing
  - **Mitigation**: Use memory-efficient data structures and implement garbage collection
- **Risk**: AI response quality with complex ToG reasoning
  - **Mitigation**: Continuous model fine-tuning and ToG path validation
- **Risk**: Scalability challenges with parallel ToG exploration
  - **Mitigation**: Distributed processing and load balancing
- **Risk**: Complexity of LangGraph agent implementation and maintenance
  - **Mitigation**: Proper modular design, comprehensive testing, and documentation
- **Risk**: Performance overhead from LangSmith tracing
  - **Mitigation**: Optimize tracing configuration and implement sampling strategies
- **Risk**: Incorrect query mode classification by the LangGraph agent
  - **Mitigation**: Continuous training and validation of classification algorithms
- **Risk**: Increased system complexity with hybrid reasoning approaches
  - **Mitigation**: Thorough testing of all mode transitions and edge cases

### 12.2 Business Risks
- **Risk**: High operational costs due to increased AI usage from ToG
  - **Mitigation**: Implement intelligent ToG usage detection and rate limiting
- **Risk**: Competition from established players
  - **Mitigation**: Focus on unique ToG-based reasoning capabilities and superior user experience

## 13. Success Criteria

- Successful deployment of MVP with GraphRAG foundation within 3 months
- Positive user feedback on Q&A accuracy with ToG reasoning
- 95% uptime achieved and maintained
- Support for 1000+ concurrent users with ToG processing
- Achieve 4+ user satisfaction rating
- Demonstrate improved answer quality for complex queries with integrated GraphRAG and ToG methodologies
- Efficient ToG processing with response times under 5 seconds for complex queries
- Successful implementation of LangGraph agent with 90%+ accuracy in query mode selection
- Full LangSmith tracing coverage of all agent operations and reasoning steps
- User satisfaction with reasoning chain transparency and explainability features
- Successful demonstration of flexible query routing (GraphRAG / ToG / Hybrid) based on question type

Commit message:

Refactor document processing to support only Markdown (.md) files, removing PaddleOCR and Unstructured library dependencies. Update Docker configuration and documentation accordingly.

docs/PRD.md, after:

# Product Requirements Document (PRD) - Document Processing and Q&A System with Tree of Graphs (ToG) and LangGraph Agent

## 1. Project Overview

### 1.1 Product Name
Knowledge Graph-based Document Processing and Q&A System with Tree of Graphs, LangGraph Agent and LangSmith Tracing

### 1.2 Executive Summary
This product is a web-based application that allows users to upload documents, process them through Microsoft's GraphRAG methodology enhanced with Tree of Graphs (ToG) reasoning from the outset, and generate intelligent answers to user queries. The system will utilize a knowledge graph (Neo4j) to store relationships between entities extracted from documents and a PostgreSQL database to store user data. The integration of ToG methodology will enhance reasoning capabilities by structuring the problem-solving process as a tree of interconnected graph-based reasoning steps. The system will be built using a LangGraph agent that intelligently selects the optimal retrieval strategy (GraphRAG, ToG, or Hybrid) based on the query type and provides transparent reasoning chains with LangSmith tracing for enhanced debugging and monitoring.

### 1.3 Vision
To create an intuitive document processing platform that enables users to extract valuable insights from their documents through advanced AI-powered question and answer capabilities, leveraging knowledge graph technology, Tree of Graphs reasoning, and a flexible agent-based approach for enhanced understanding and context.

## 2. Goals and Objectives

### 2.1 Primary Goals
- Enable users to upload various document types and extract meaningful information
- Implement Microsoft's GraphRAG approach enhanced with Tree of Graphs (ToG) reasoning methodology from the start
- Provide intelligent Q&A capabilities based on uploaded documents with enhanced reasoning
- Create an intuitive and responsive user interface
- Ensure scalability and data security
- Implement a LangGraph agent for intelligent query routing and processing
- Integrate LangSmith for comprehensive agent tracing and debugging
- Provide transparent reasoning chains with query responses

### 2.2 Success Metrics
- Average response time for Q&A queries under 5 seconds (with ToG processing)
- Support for document types: MD files
- 95% uptime for the application
- Support for up to 1000 concurrent users
- User satisfaction rating of 4+ stars
- Improved answer accuracy and reasoning depth with integrated GraphRAG and ToG methodologies
- 90% accuracy in query mode selection by the LangGraph agent
- Comprehensive tracing coverage of all reasoning steps with LangSmith

## 3. Target Users

### 3.1 Primary Users
- Knowledge workers in enterprises
- Researchers and analysts
- Students and educators
- Legal professionals
- Consultants and business analysts

## 4. Feature Requirements

### 4.1 User Management
- User registration and authentication
- Profile management
- Document upload history
- Subscription/plan management

### 4.2 Document Processing
- File upload functionality (drag and drop, multiple files)
- .md document parsing and validation
- Progress tracking during processing
- Support for .md file format
- File size limits and validation

### 4.3 Knowledge Graph Integration with ToG
- Implementation of Microsoft's GraphRAG methodology
- Tree of Graphs (ToG) reasoning enhancement
- Entity extraction and relationship mapping
- Hierarchical graph structure creation for document content
- Storage and retrieval from Neo4j knowledge graph
- Multi-step reasoning through graph traversal

### 4.4 Question & Answer System with ToG and LangGraph Agent
- Natural language query interface
- LangGraph agent for intelligent query routing between GraphRAG, ToG, and Hybrid modes
- Flexible query modes (GraphRAG / ToG / Hybrid) based on automatic query classification
- Tree of Graphs-based multi-step reasoning
- Context-aware answer generation
- Source citation for answers
- Answer confidence scoring
- Support for complex, multi-part questions
- Reasoning path visualization
- Display of reasoning chains with answers
- LangSmith tracing for comprehensive agent monitoring

### 4.5 User Interface
- Modern, responsive UI using Next.js 15+
- Shadcn UI components for consistent design
- Tailwind CSS for styling
- Intuitive navigation and user experience
- Dark/light mode support
- Real-time chat interface for Q&A
- Reasoning visualization panel to show ToG steps

## 5. Technical Architecture

### 5.1 Frontend
- **Framework**: Next.js 15+ with App Router
- **UI Components**: shadcn/ui
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS
- **Deployment**: Vercel or Netlify
- **State Management**: Zustand or React Query
- **API Communication**: Axios or Fetch API

### 5.2 Backend
- **Framework**: FastAPI
- **Programming Language**: Python 3.10+
- **Database (User Data)**: PostgreSQL
- **Database (Knowledge Graph)**: Neo4j
- **Deployment**: Docker containers, deployed on AWS/GCP/Azure
- **API Documentation**: Swagger/OpenAPI
- **Caching**: Redis for frequently accessed graph nodes and reasoning paths

### 5.3 AI/LLM Integration
- **Model**: Google Gemini 2.5 Flash
- **Integration**: Through Google AI SDK
- **Prompt Engineering**: ToG-enhanced prompting for multi-step reasoning
- **Rate Limiting**: API call throttling to manage costs
- **Reasoning Engine**: Custom ToG implementation for structured problem solving
- **Agent Framework**: LangGraph for building and orchestrating the reasoning agent
- **Tracing and Monitoring**: LangSmith for comprehensive agent tracing, debugging, and performance analysis
- **Flexible Query Processing**: LangGraph agent that chooses optimal strategies (GraphRAG / ToG / Hybrid) based on query classification

### 5.4 Data Flow Architecture
```
[Document Upload] → [Parsing & Preprocessing] → [Entity Extraction] → [Knowledge Graph Creation] 
→ [Query Classification by LangGraph Agent] → [Mode Selection: GraphRAG | ToG | Hybrid] 
→ [Flexible Reasoning Process] → [Reasoning Chain Generation] → [Answer Generation with Source Citations] 
→ [Response with Reasoning Chain Display]
```

## 6. Microsoft GraphRAG with Tree of Graphs (ToG) Implementation

### 6.1 Overview
Microsoft's GraphRAG approach combines traditional retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) with knowledge graph technology to enhance the quality and relevance of generated answers. When enhanced with Tree of Graphs (ToG) reasoning, the system structures the problem-solving process as a tree of interconnected graph-based reasoning steps, allowing for more sophisticated and structured analysis of complex queries.

### 6.2 ToG Integration Details
The Tree of Graphs approach will enable the system to:
1. Break complex queries into smaller sub-problems (tree nodes)
2. Process each sub-problem using graph-based reasoning
3. Combine results from multiple reasoning paths
4. Explore multiple reasoning paths simultaneously with backtracking when needed
5. Provide explainable AI by showing the reasoning path

### 6.3 Implementation Steps
1. **Document Parsing**: Extract text and structured data from uploaded .md documents
2. **Entity Recognition**: Identify and classify entities (people, places, organizations, concepts)
3. **Relationship Extraction**: Determine relationships between identified entities
4. **Graph Construction**: Create a knowledge graph representation of document content
5. **Indexing**: Index the knowledge graph for efficient querying
6. **Query Decomposition**: Break complex queries into sub-queries using ToG methodology
7. **Tree-based Reasoning**: Execute reasoning across multiple graph paths simultaneously
8. **Result Aggregation**: Combine insights from multiple reasoning paths
9. **Answer Generation**: Generate responses based on graph insights using Gemini 2.5 Flash

### 6.4 Knowledge Graph Schema with ToG Capabilities
The Neo4j knowledge graph will include nodes for:
- Documents
- Entities (People, Organizations, Places, Concepts)
- Sentences/Paragraphs
- Topics/Themes
- Reasoning Steps
- ToG Nodes (tree structure for reasoning paths)

Relationships will include:
- CONTAINS, REFERS_TO, MENTIONS, CONNECTS_TO
- HAS_TYPE, PART_OF, RELATED_TO
- REASONING_STEP_OF, PREVIOUS_STEP, NEXT_STEP
- SUB_PROBLEM_OF, DEPENDS_ON

### 6.5 ToG Reasoning Process
The ToG reasoning will follow these steps:
1. **Query Analysis**: Analyze the question to determine if ToG reasoning is needed
2. **Problem Decomposition**: Break the query into sub-problems if complexity threshold is exceeded
3. **Tree Construction**: Create reasoning tree with multiple paths
4. **Parallel Exploration**: Traverse multiple graph paths simultaneously
5. **Result Synthesis**: Combine results from all exploration paths
6. **Validation**: Verify consistency and accuracy of final answer
7. **Explanation**: Generate reasoning path documentation

### 6.6 Flexible Query Modes with LangGraph Agent
The system will feature a LangGraph-based agent that automatically classifies question types and selects the most appropriate processing strategy:

#### 6.6.1 Query Mode Classification
- **Chế độ truy vấn linh hoạt (GraphRAG / ToG / Hybrid)**: The system will automatically classify question types and select the appropriate response strategy:
  - **GraphRAG Mode**: Applied when questions require a comprehensive, holistic view. The system will use the GraphRAG approach to search for answers based on the overall knowledge graph and community summaries.
  - **ToG Mode**: Applied when questions involve deep sequential queries or require step-by-step reasoning. The system will use the ToG method, starting from key entities and sequentially expanding through relationships, with pruning of irrelevant branches, to find detailed answers.
  - **Hybrid Mode**: Applied for complex multi-tiered questions that require both broad context and deep reasoning. The system combines both approaches: starting with GraphRAG to identify relevant knowledge areas, then switching to ToG to explore details within those areas.

#### 6.6.2 LangGraph Agent Workflow
- **Query Classification**: The agent analyzes incoming queries to determine the optimal processing strategy
- **Mode Selection**: Automatically selects between GraphRAG, ToG, or Hybrid based on query characteristics
- **Execution Orchestration**: Coordinates the execution of the chosen reasoning approach
- **Result Aggregation**: Combines results from various reasoning processes
- **Response Generation**: Creates final responses with appropriate citations and explanations

### 6.7 Reasoning Chain and Transparency Features
The system will provide enhanced transparency through detailed reasoning chains:

#### 6.7.1 Reasoning Chain Display
- **Each response will include**: The main answer (generated in natural Vietnamese by the LLM) and a reasoning chain explaining the logical steps or information links used to reach the answer.
- **Chain Visualization**: The reasoning chain can be displayed as a list of logical steps, with citations or annotations showing the source (e.g., from which document section or graph node).
- **Traceability**: Users will be able to understand the basis of the answer, increasing transparency and trust in the system.

#### 6.7.2 LangSmith Integration
- **Comprehensive Tracing**: All agent operations and reasoning steps will be traced using LangSmith
- **Debugging Capabilities**: Enhanced debugging and monitoring of the agent's decision-making process
- **Performance Analysis**: Detailed analysis of agent performance and response quality
- **Audit Trail**: Complete audit trail of all processing steps for compliance and optimization

## 7. Database Design

### 7.1 PostgreSQL Schema
```
Tables:
- users (id, email, password_hash, created_at, updated_at)
- documents (id, user_id, filename, file_path, status, created_at, updated_at)
- queries (id, user_id, query_text, response, created_at)
- reasoning_paths (id, query_id, path_data, confidence_score, created_at)
```

### 7.2 Neo4j Graph Schema with ToG Support
```
Nodes:
- Document: {doc_id, title, source, content_hash}
- Entity: {entity_id, name, type, description}
- Sentence: {sentence_id, text, position}
- ToGNode: {node_id, reasoning_type, confidence, state}
- ReasoningStep: {step_id, description, result}

Relationships:
- Document-[CONTAINS]->Entity
- Document-[CONTAINS]->Sentence
- Entity-[RELATED_TO]->Entity
- Sentence-[MENTIONS]->Entity
- ToGNode-[HAS_CHILD]->ToGNode
- ToGNode-[CONNECTS_TO]->Entity
- ReasoningStep-[FOLLOWS]->ReasoningStep
- Query-[USES_PATH]->ReasoningStep
```

## 8. User Journey

### 8.1 Registration/Onboarding
1. User signs up and creates account
2. Introduction to the platform capabilities including ToG reasoning

### 8.2 Document Upload and Processing
1. User selects .md documents for upload
2. File validation and progress tracking
3. Background processing with status updates
4. Knowledge graph construction with ToG compatibility
5. Confirmation of successful processing

### 8.3 Query and Q&A with LangGraph Agent and Flexible Reasoning
1. User enters a question about processed documents
2. LangGraph agent automatically classifies the question type and selects appropriate mode (GraphRAG / ToG / Hybrid)
3. System applies the selected reasoning approach:
   - For comprehensive questions: GraphRAG mode with holistic graph analysis
   - For sequential/step-by-step questions: ToG mode with tree-based reasoning
   - For complex multi-tiered questions: Hybrid mode combining both approaches
4. Multiple reasoning paths are explored as appropriate for the selected mode
5. AI generates answer with source citations and detailed reasoning chain
6. User receives both the natural language answer and a visual reasoning chain showing the logical steps and data sources
7. User can review the reasoning process, validate sources, or ask follow-up questions

## 9. Security and Privacy

### 9.1 Data Security
- End-to-end encryption for document uploads
- Secure storage of user credentials and data
- Role-based access control
- Regular security audits
- Encryption of reasoning paths and ToG data

### 9.2 Privacy
- GDPR compliance
- Data retention policies
- Right to deletion of personal data
- Transparent privacy policy
- Anonymization of reasoning patterns

## 10. Performance Requirements

### 10.1 Scalability
- Horizontal scaling capabilities
- Load balancing for API requests
- Database optimization and indexing
- Caching mechanisms for frequently accessed data
- Distributed ToG reasoning across multiple nodes

### 10.2 Performance
- Page load times under 2 seconds
- Simple query API response times under 1 second
- Complex ToG-based queries response times under 5 seconds
- Document processing time proportional to document size
- Concurrency handling for multiple users
- Efficient ToG tree pruning to optimize reasoning time

## 11. Development Phases

### Phase 1: MVP Development with GraphRAG Foundation
- Basic user authentication
- Document upload functionality
- GraphRAG implementation with Neo4j knowledge graph
- Entity and relationship extraction
- Basic knowledge graph construction and indexing
- Simple UI for testing

### Phase 2: Advanced GraphRAG Features
- Enhance knowledge graph with community detection
- Implement graph-based Q&A with community summaries
- Advanced entity and relationship extraction
- Implement graph traversal algorithms for retrieval
- Add graph visualization for debugging

### Phase 3: ToG Reasoning Implementation
- Develop Tree of Graphs reasoning engine
- Implement query decomposition logic
- Create ToG tree structure and traversal
- Integrate ToG with GraphRAG methodology for enhanced reasoning
- Add reasoning path visualization to UI

### Phase 4: LangGraph Agent Implementation
- Implement LangGraph agent for intelligent query routing
- Develop query classification system for mode selection (GraphRAG / ToG / Hybrid)
- Integrate LangSmith for comprehensive agent tracing
- Implement flexible reasoning mode switching
- Add reasoning chain generation and display

### Phase 5: Advanced UI and Optimization
- Improved UI/UX with shadcn components and ToG visualization
- Performance optimization for ToG processing
- Advanced querying capabilities
- Enhanced answer explanation features
- Reasoning chain visualization improvements

### Phase 6: LangSmith Integration and Tracing
- Complete LangSmith tracing implementation for all processes
- Reasoning chain visualization and transparency features
- Agent performance optimization and testing
- Comprehensive debugging and monitoring tools

### Phase 7: Production Readiness
- Security hardening
- Performance monitoring
- Analytics implementation
- Documentation and user guides
- Load testing with ToG and LangGraph features
- Production deployment preparation

## 12. Risks and Mitigation

### 12.1 Technical Risks
- **Risk**: High computational complexity of ToG reasoning affecting response time
  - **Mitigation**: Implement efficient tree pruning and caching mechanisms
- **Risk**: Large memory consumption during ToG processing
  - **Mitigation**: Use memory-efficient data structures and implement garbage collection
- **Risk**: AI response quality with complex ToG reasoning
  - **Mitigation**: Continuous model fine-tuning and ToG path validation
- **Risk**: Scalability challenges with parallel ToG exploration
  - **Mitigation**: Distributed processing and load balancing
- **Risk**: Complexity of LangGraph agent implementation and maintenance
  - **Mitigation**: Proper modular design, comprehensive testing, and documentation
- **Risk**: Performance overhead from LangSmith tracing
  - **Mitigation**: Optimize tracing configuration and implement sampling strategies
- **Risk**: Incorrect query mode classification by the LangGraph agent
  - **Mitigation**: Continuous training and validation of classification algorithms
- **Risk**: Increased system complexity with hybrid reasoning approaches
  - **Mitigation**: Thorough testing of all mode transitions and edge cases

### 12.2 Business Risks
- **Risk**: High operational costs due to increased AI usage from ToG
  - **Mitigation**: Implement intelligent ToG usage detection and rate limiting
- **Risk**: Competition from established players
  - **Mitigation**: Focus on unique ToG-based reasoning capabilities and superior user experience

## 13. Success Criteria

- Successful deployment of MVP with GraphRAG foundation within 3 months
- Positive user feedback on Q&A accuracy with ToG reasoning
- 95% uptime achieved and maintained
- Support for 1000+ concurrent users with ToG processing
- Achieve 4+ user satisfaction rating
- Demonstrate improved answer quality for complex queries with integrated GraphRAG and ToG methodologies
- Efficient ToG processing with response times under 5 seconds for complex queries
- Successful implementation of LangGraph agent with 90%+ accuracy in query mode selection
- Full LangSmith tracing coverage of all agent operations and reasoning steps
- User satisfaction with reasoning chain transparency and explainability features
- Successful demonstration of flexible query routing (GraphRAG / ToG / Hybrid) based on question type
